Operator overloading allows us to assign our own logic to operators,
so that we can do things like add two classes together or multiply them,
or apply braces, or parentheses or brackets to them.
So for an example,
let's create a class matrix.
C plus plus does not have its own matrix class even in the standard library.
If you were to actually try and use a matrix,
I would strongly recommend using a library like Eigen or some other pre-defined library,
to take advantage of code somebody else has written,
but if we want to for example purposes,
create our own matrix and imagine we want to create a main function,
and in that main function,
we're going to create a matrix,
and we'll make it a two by two matrix.
We want to set the value,
the very first element of that matrix to say four,
and then we want to assert that we have indeed set that value to four.
So how do we do that? Well, before we even get to operator overloading,
we're going to need to think about how we want to store data in our matrix,
and we could store a vector of vectors,
a classic two by two square,
but it will make our lives a little bit easier here if we just store
everything in a single vector.
We'll call that values,
we'll make it private.
Remember, we need to include the vector library,
and then we can access elements of values by storing everything sequentially,
and we'll see in a second the math we can use to access those values.
So once we have those values,
we'll probably need the number of rows in the matrix and the number of columns.
We'll make those private because they have invariance.
You don't want to just change them on the fly,
otherwise weird things are gonna happen to your matrix,
and we'll create a constructor matrix that takes rows and columns,
and has an attribute list,
and we'll say that rows get initialized to rows
and columns get initialized to columns,
and we'll also say that
our values get initialized to the number of rows times the number of columns.
So essentially, that's the total number of elements in the matrix.
So now we have the data structure for a matrix and what we need to
do is figure out how to first set and then access the data.
In order to set the data,
since we're going to store our matrix as a collection of ints,
we're going to need to overload the parentheses operator,
and we'll pass in a row and a column.
That's what we do down here,
is we pass in two values,
a row and a column, and so up here,
we have a row and a column,
and we use the operator keyword,
and then we say we want to overload this parentheses operator.
You could also, if you wanted to add the matrix,
you could overload the plus operator or the minus operator,
or the shift operator,
but in our case, we don't want to overload the parentheses operator.
There's also this other funky thing going on over here,
which is this ampersand,
which means we're returning a reference to an integer,
not the integer itself.
This has to do with memory management and
it's a little beyond the scope of what we're going to cover here.
But essentially, what we're doing is instead of returning the value of the integer,
we're returning the reference to it or the location of it,
so that we can overwrite that value.
So that's why when we set matrix 0,0 equals four,
if we just returned the value that was being stored at 0,0,
we would have something like eight equals four,
which wouldn't really make sense.
In this case, we're returning the address of this location in the matrix,
and we can say that address should be set equal to four,
which actually makes sense.
So the way that we actually implement this is we say,
in the values vector,
since we're storing all our data in one vector,
we want to take the row we're trying to access times the number of columns.
I forgot to add underscore there for our private member variable,
and then add in the column that we're actually trying to access.
If we're trying to access the third row,
we skip all the columns in the first two rows,
and if we're trying to access,
say, the first row,
we skip all the columns in the first row,
the 0th row, and then we skip to the particular column that we're looking to update.
So in a two by two matrix,
if we're trying to access spot 1,0,
we'll skip the first row,
and so the row would equal one,
and the total number of columns in the matrix is equal to two.
Then we're looking at the 0th spot in the in the next row.
So we would be looking at the values index too,
which is really the third overall element in the vector.
That math is a little funky because of the fact that we started indexing from zero.
But if you kind of sit down with a piece of paper and
work out how all that index and works,
you'll see that we can access any element in the vector through this formula.
So now, we're returning our matrix,
the reference to the point in the matrix that we want to return,
and if we want to simply access location in the matrix,
we can say int row, int column.
So this is going to look very similar to our previous function.
We're still overloading the parentheses operator,
but now we're overloading it with a const function,
and instead of returning a reference,
we're returning an actual integer because in this case,
we're just reading the value,
and in fact, we will return the same thing.
However, in the writable function,
the mutator function here,
we're returning a reference to that location,
and then in the access function,
we're just returning the value at that location.
But in both instances,
we are overloading the parentheses operator,
and this is an example of how we would overload the parentheses operator.
So if we compile and run our program,
let's see if we included a couple underscores that we shouldn't have included.
I think that's it, but not quite.
Let's see, we didn't save it.
Now we can pilot,
and we can see that in fact our program runs,
and then need exercise for you might be
to type all this out in your own editor and get it to run,
and then try and overload an operator for adding a matrix.
So we could actually create a new matrix that we returned
fro
overloading
the plus operator
and adding in the second matrix,
and that would allow us to do something like matrix one plus matrix
two equal matrix three,
is equal to matrix one plus matrix two. Something like that.